Add Online Community working group (#23)
django/dsf-working-groups: active/online-community.md

  - Provide support to improve the platforms to lighten moderation and admin workloads.
  - Provide training and support to the wider community on how to use the platforms effectively.
  - Ensure that our online communities are welcoming and safe spaces.

### What actions are you proposing the WG be allowed to take directly?
  - Creation and management of processes related to community platforms. Examples of these processes include:
    - Proposals for adding/removing moderators & other roles and the adding/removing of roles directly.
    - Training for moderators & other roles as required.
    - Ensuring moderation is consistent across teams and platforms.
  - Taking ideas from the community to improve the community spaces.

### Which actions will the WG take back to the Board for votes?
  - Proposals to trial a new platform.
  - Proposals to migrate to a new platform.
  - Proposals to retire an existing platform that is in use.
  - Budget requests to improve existing platforms.

There are a lot of potential ideas in this space. Part of the WG will be setting up a process to take ideas and have a backlog of these ideas.

### Delegated responsibilities

> With regards to Django Software Foundation responsibilities and resources, the members of group are assigned:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With regards to Django Software Foundation responsibilities and resources, the members of the group are assigned:
```

- CoC Liaison: Dan Ryan
- Other members:
  - Patryk Bratkowski
  - Ben Cardy

## Future membership

Anyone can join, however they must be active on one of the community platforms for at least 3 months or nominated by a DSF Individual member.

### Expressing Interest

Send one of the WG members a message on Discord or the Forum. A form will be made available in a public space with the following questions:

* Usernames on the Forum/Discord.
* Why they want to join.
* What experience and skills they bring to the WG.

### Membership Conditions

  - New members may self-nominate.
  - Members will serve for a one year term. At the end of this term, they need to opt into staying involved to keep being a member of the group.
  - New members will get approved by existing members of the WG.
  - If any member wishes to leave the group before the end of their term, they can do so by notifying the group.
  - Members can propose a vote on removing a member from the working group. This needs 50%+1 agreement.

### Roles in within WG

 - Chair/Co-chair: Ideally these two members will be represenatives from separate platforms within the community. This is to ensure the WG remains balanced.

>  - The Code of Conduct WG Liaison is a voting member of this working group that is chosen by the CoCWG from their members.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - The Code of Conduct WG Liaison is a voting member of this working group that is chosen by the CoC WG from their members.
```

    - Training for moderators & other roles as required.
    - Ensuring moderation is consistent across teams and platforms.
  - Taking ideas from the community to improve the community spaces.

### Which actions will the WG take back to the Board for votes?
  - Proposals to trial a new platform.
  - Proposals to migrate to a new platform.
  - Proposals to retire an existing platform that is in use.
  - Budget requests to improve existing platforms.

There are a lot of potential ideas in this space. Part of the WG will be setting up a process to take ideas and have a backlog of these ideas.

### Delegated responsibilities

With regards to Django Software Foundation responsibilities and resources, the members of group are assigned:

- Administrator Privileges on approved community platforms with the following conditions to create redundancy and protect the community from any single person holding too much power.
  - A single member may not have Administrator Privileges on all platforms.
  - Each platform has a minimum of two members with Administrator Privileges.

## Initial membership

- Chair: Andrew Miller
- Co-Chair: TBD
- Board Liaison: Tom Carrick
- CoC Liaison: Dan Ryan

> - SC Liaison?:

Reviewer 2: Should either drop this (and the line mentioning it) or have it in place before voting. I'm okay with either.

Reviewer 2: (and if it's dropped, fine to add it later, of course)

Reviewer 3: I'm having difficulty understanding the relation between this working group's activities and the Steering Council. As of right now I don't think a liaison is needed.

Reviewer 4: I agree with @tim-schilling. Having too many Liaisons feels like a thing when what may be needed are some points of how this WG can work with or help with SC vs. a formal reporting structure.

### Expressing Interest

Send one of the WG members a message on Discord or the Forum. A form will be made available in a public space with the following questions:

* Usernames on the Forum/Discord.
* Why they want to join.
* What experience and skills they bring to the WG.

### Membership Conditions

  - New members may self-nominate.
  - Members will serve for a one year term. At the end of this term, they need to opt into staying involved to keep being a member of the group.
  - New members will get approved by existing members of the WG.
  - If any member wishes to leave the group before the end of their term, they can do so by notifying the group.
  - Members can propose a vote on removing a member from the working group. This needs 50%+1 agreement.

### Roles in within WG

 - Chair/Co-chair: Ideally these two members will be represenatives from separate platforms within the community. This is to ensure the WG remains balanced.
 - The Code of Conduct WG Liaison is a voting member of this working group that is chosen by the CoCWG from their members.
 - Board Liaison: Must be an active Board member; may be the same as Chair/Co-Chair, may not be the same as CoC WG Liaison.

>  - SC Liaison: Must be an active member of the Steering Council, maybe the same as the Chair/Co-Chair.

Reviewer 2: These have different connotations.

```suggestion
 - SC Liaison: Must be an active member of the Steering Council, may be the same as the Chair/Co-Chair.
```

>  - SC Liaison: Must be an active member of the Steering Council, may be the same as the Chair/Co-Chair.

Reviewer 4: See previous notes about the SC Liaison role.

We can support them through training and taking action to make their lives easier.

The broad goals of the group are:
  - facilitate and centralise discussion between moderators and admins on the various platforms
  - coordinate efforts for training and processes around moderation
  - provide support to improve the platforms to lighten moderation and admin workloads
  - provide training and support to the wider community on how to use the platforms effectively
  - ensure consistency that our online Django communities are welcoming and safe spaces

- What actions are you proposing the WG be allowed to take directly?
  - Creation and management of processes related to community platforms. Examples of these processes include
    - Proposals for adding/removing moderators & other roles and the adding/removing of roles directly
    - Training for moderators & other roles as required
    - Ensuring moderation is consistent across teams and platforms
  - Taking ideas from the community to improve the community spaces.

> - Which actions will the WG take back to the Board for votes?

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- Which actions will the WG take back to the Board for votes?
```

>   - Proposal to trial a new platforms
>   - Proposal to migrate to a new platforms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Proposal to trial a new platform
  - Proposal to migrate to a new platform
```

## Initial membership

- Chair: Andrew Miller
- Co-Chair: TBD
- Board Liaison (must be an active Board member; may be the same as Chair/Co-Chair): Tom Carrick?
- Other members:
  - Patryk Bratkowski

## Future membership

- Who is eligible to join? Any volunteer, or are there specific requirements?
  - Anyone can join, however they need to active on the community platforms for at least 3 months or nominated by a DSF Individual member.
- How do people who want to join sign up / volunteer / express interest?
  - Send one of the WG members a message on Discord or the Forum
- How will decisions on adding/removing members be handled?
  - New members may self-nominate.
  - Members will serve for a one year term. At the end of this term, they need to opt into staying involved to keep being a member of the group.
  - New members will get approved by existing members of the WG.
  - If any member wishes to leave the group before the end of their term, they can do so by notifying the group.
  - Members can propose a vote on removing a member from the working group. This needs 50%+1 agreement.

## Budget

- How much money or spending discretion do you need?

>   - None to begin with, however I would expect over time budget might get requested for supporting the Forum and Discord server. See below for [ideas](#budget-ideas)

Reviewer: Most of the text is written without using "I" so perhaps this could be:
```suggestion
  - None to begin with, however budget might get requested over time for supporting the Forum and Discord server. See below for [ideas](#budget-ideas)
```

- How do you want that money allocated:
  - None to begin with.

## Comms

Where will discussions and activities take place?

Suggestions:

- Private Channel in the Discord Server and private category in the forum, possibly also a channel is the DSF slack.
- This space should be shared with the CoC Commitee or another space for shared comms across platforms.

> Meetings: Quarterly video call meeting on Discord.

Reviewer: Could we not stick with Discord in the WG definitions? We could be less specific saying:
```suggestion
Meetings: Quarterly meetings, preferably over video to improve the engagement, facilitate better communication, and ensure more meaningful discussions.
```

Author: How the mention of Discord any different from the mention of Slack or Google Groups in other WG definitions? 

I'm happy to be corrected, but I see this repo as 'living' so if we do change how we do calls as a WG then this document can be updated to reflect that?

Reviewer 2: At the moment the WGs (all? mostly?) have a space on Slack. I don't see this as strictly necessary as long as all WG members are happy to use the stated platform.

Reviewer 5: See our notes on [Changes to Working Groups](https://github.com/django/dsf-working-groups?tab=readme-ov-file#changes-to-working-groups) and what qualifies as a "substantive" change that requires board approval, and what can be done without that. If in doubt just check with us :)

## Reporting

How and how often will the WG report back to the board?
  - Quarterly forum post and discord announcement of improvements made to the platforms.

>   - Private quarterly report of improvements made to the platforms to the Board

Reviewer: What's the difference between these two? Is there going to be a report about "problematic" users to be shared privately with the Board and/or the CoC?

Author: This addresses Thibaud's comment [here](https://github.com/django/dsf-working-groups/pull/23#discussion_r1849314354) where he mentions the requirement for a private report if sensitive topics are discussed. I could see "problematic" users being one of those sensitive topics.

Reviewer 6: This is similar to how the Code of Conduct WG reports as well. A public transparency report that has additional context privately provided to the board when appropriate.

  - provide training and support to the wider community on how to use the platforms effectively
  - ensure consistency that our online Django communities are welcoming and safe spaces

- What actions are you proposing the WG be allowed to take directly?
  - Creation and management of processes related to community platforms. Examples of these processes include
    - Proposals for adding/removing moderators & other roles and the adding/removing of roles directly
    - Training for moderators & other roles as required
    - Ensuring moderation is consistent across teams and platforms
  - Taking ideas from the community to improve the community spaces.

- Which actions will the WG take back to the Board for votes?
  - Proposal to trial a new platform
  - Proposal to migrate to a new platform
  - Proposal to retire an existing platform that is in use
  - Budget to improve existing platforms

There is a lot of potential ideas in this space. Part of the WG will be setting up a process to take ideas and have a backlog of these ideas.

### Delegated responsibilities

With regards to Django Software Foundation responsibilities and resources, the group operates with:

> - A minimum of two members having admin privileges for a single platform while a single member of the group not having admin priveleges to all platforms.

Author: Yep ok, it's one of those sentences which might be better as multiple statements.

> - A minimum of two members having admin privileges for a single platform while a single member of the group not having admin priveleges to all platforms.

Author: I have reworded this sentence @LilyFoote, let me know if it's still unclear.

  - provide training and support to the wider community on how to use the platforms effectively
  - ensure consistency that our online Django communities are welcoming and safe spaces

- What actions are you proposing the WG be allowed to take directly?
  - Creation and management of processes related to community platforms. Examples of these processes include
    - Proposals for adding/removing moderators & other roles and the adding/removing of roles directly
    - Training for moderators & other roles as required
    - Ensuring moderation is consistent across teams and platforms
  - Taking ideas from the community to improve the community spaces.

- Which actions will the WG take back to the Board for votes?
  - Proposal to trial a new platform
  - Proposal to migrate to a new platform
  - Proposal to retire an existing platform that is in use
  - Budget to improve existing platforms

There is a lot of potential ideas in this space. Part of the WG will be setting up a process to take ideas and have a backlog of these ideas.

### Delegated responsibilities

With regards to Django Software Foundation responsibilities and resources, the group operates with:

> - Administrator Privileges on approved community platforms with the following conditions to create redundency and protect the community from any single person holding too much power:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- Administrator Privileges on approved community platforms with the following conditions to create redundancy and protect the community from any single person holding too much power:
```

  - A single member may not have Administrator Privileges to all platforms

>   - A minimum of two members having Administrator Privileges for a single platform

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
  - Each platform has a minimum of two members with Administrator Privileges
```

# Online Community Working Group

## Scope of responsibilities

This group exists to support the official community platforms and those in elevated roles on those platforms.

> The [Django Forum](https://forum.djangoproject.com/) and the [Django Discord](https://discord.gg/xcRH6mN4fa) are core parts of the overall community and those that help and moderate these platforms take significant time from their day to help others.

Reviewer 2: Simplification + clarification.

```suggestion
The [Django Forum](https://forum.djangoproject.com/) and the [Django Discord](https://discord.gg/xcRH6mN4fa) are core parts of the community and those that provide help and moderate these platforms take significant time from their day to help others.
```

We can support them through training and taking action to make their lives easier.

The broad goals of the group are:
  - facilitate and centralise discussion between moderators and admins on the various platforms
  - coordinate efforts for training and processes around moderation
  - provide support to improve the platforms to lighten moderation and admin workloads
  - provide training and support to the wider community on how to use the platforms effectively

>   - ensure consistency that our online Django communities are welcoming and safe spaces

Reviewer 2: I feel these are extraneous.

```suggestion
  - ensure that our online communities are welcoming and safe spaces
```

> - What actions are you proposing the WG be allowed to take directly?

Reviewer 2: I don't think this line should be bulleted.

>   - Creation and management of processes related to community platforms. Examples of these processes include

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Creation and management of processes related to community platforms. Examples of these processes include:
```

    - Proposals for adding/removing moderators & other roles and the adding/removing of roles directly

>     - Training for moderators & other roles as required

Reviewer 2: Just from a style point of view:

Some list items are capitalised and others not. Some have punctuation and others not. At least within the same list it should be consistent, but you could also make the argument for them to be consistent throughout.

    - Ensuring moderation is consistent across teams and platforms
  - Taking ideas from the community to improve the community spaces.

> - Which actions will the WG take back to the Board for votes?

Reviewer 2: As before, don't think this line should be bulleted.

Reviewer 2: Maybe headings? Not sure.

>   - Proposal to trial a new platform
>   - Proposal to migrate to a new platform
>   - Proposal to retire an existing platform that is in use
>   - Budget to improve existing platforms

Reviewer 2: I feel reads better:

```suggestion
  - Proposals to trial a new platform
  - Proposals to migrate to a new platform
  - Proposals to retire an existing platform that is in use
  - Budget requests to improve existing platforms
```

> There is a lot of potential ideas in this space. Part of the WG will be setting up a process to take ideas and have a backlog of these ideas.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are a lot of potential ideas in this space. Part of the WG will be setting up a process to take ideas and have a backlog of these ideas.
```

### Delegated responsibilities

With regards to Django Software Foundation responsibilities and resources, the group operates with:

> - Administrator Privileges on approved community platforms with the following conditions to create redundancy and protect the community from any single person holding too much power:

Reviewer 2: If I read these two lines together it kinda sounds a bit like the group wants to have admin privileges across all platforms rather than expressing restrictions on people (in the group or not). I don't think this is intended and should probably be clarified.

Author: I have altered the wording of the first sentence, but agree it's not the most clear. My intention was to ensure that there is someone with admin privileges with in the group and that it's not all with a single member.

  - A single member may not have Administrator Privileges to all platforms
  - Each platform has a minimum of two members with Administrator Privileges

## Initial membership

- Chair: Andrew Miller

> - Co-Chair: TBD

Reviewer 2: I think really important to fill this seat before we vote. I would also really like if this is someone that moderates or administers the forum. So far I only see @nessita as an option here.

Reviewer 5: Can confirm it’s mandatory for all groups to have a co-chair.

Author: @nessita would you like to be Co-Chair?

I would like to have another person from the Forum at least as a member. I will ping those that haven't commented here one last time, otherwise the other option as I see it would be to promote someone into that role on the Forum who is engaged in this WG.

Reviewer: I'm so sorry everyone for not responding sooner, for some reason these mentions were not picked up by my mail filters. Thank you @knyghty for reaching out!

I'll be happy to join as a Co-Chair (though I would need some guidance on the role responsibilities).

Author: Thanks @nessita! I will be learning about being a Chair as well so we can learn together.😄

- Board Liaison (must be an active Board member; may be the same as Chair/Co-Chair): Tom Carrick
- Other members:
  - Patryk Bratkowski
  - Natalia Bidart

>   - Ben Cardy

Reviewer 2: Good list of people. I would appreciate perhaps one more from the forum, and longer term, if Reddit "control" moves here, someone from there. I think neither should block this.

Reviewer 5: For what it’s worth, Reddit control is already with us, with myself and @czue being the two active admins/mods there. There are other mods but they’re all inactive currently. We arranged to step in as part of the [social media WG](https://github.com/django/dsf-working-groups/blob/main/active/social-media.md) (see mentions of moderation in that group charter).

Reviewer 2: Yes, what I mean is that I think of Reddit more of a community space than a social media platform and I'm the long term I'd be favour of moving it to this group. Just my 2p

  - (CoC Liason)

>   - (SC Liason?)

Reviewer 2: I suggest these are also filled before voting.

I wouldn't consider the SC blocking at this moment.

Reviewer 5: If those are intended formal roles within the group, I think it’d be nice to document what the roles involve in this document. For "board liaison" for example, people’s expectations have differed on quite fundamental aspects. For example whether the named board liaison is a member of a group in their own right, or more of an "observer" that doesn’t necessarily vote or take part in group activities aside from interactions with the board.

## Future membership

> - Who is eligible to join? Any volunteer, or are there specific requirements?

Reviewer 2: I also don't know if these questions should be bulleted. Not sure how questions are done elsewhere.

Reviewer 5: For other group charters, the section headings have been preserved and questions like this one have been replaced with their answer.

>   - Anyone can join, however they need to active on the community platforms for at least 3 months or nominated by a DSF Individual member.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Anyone can join, however they must be active on one of the community platforms for at least 3 months or nominated by a DSF Individual member.
```

- How do people who want to join sign up / volunteer / express interest?
  - Send one of the WG members a message on Discord or the Forum

> - How will decisions on adding/removing members be handled?

Reviewer 2: There are some inconsistencies between whether there as spaces between `/` or not.

>   - New members may self-nominate.

Reviewer 5: Note for other groups we’ve had feedback it wasn’t clear how to self-nominate. The social media WG charter has this language instead:

> A form will be made available in a public space.
